README.md, before:

# MMO Gamepad Overlay

Demonstration video (click to play):

[![MMOGO Demo](http://img.youtube.com/vi/SBlLWR59GGk/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SBlLWR59GGk "MMO Gamepad Overlay app demo")

This application translates game controller input into keyboard and mouse input, alongside gamepad-controlled menus (displayed in a separate transparent window layered over the game) to enable many game functions with the few buttons available on a gamepad.

This application does ***NOT***:
- Require (or even include) an installation process  
- Modify game files in any way  
- Modify or even directly read game memory  
- Inject any code into other processes  
- Use any libraries beyond the basic Windows API  
- Expect or solicit payments or donations  
- Use any proprietary or hidden source code

## Download

Get the latest release [here](https://github.com/OneCrazyCoder/MMOGamepadOverlay/releases), including 32-bit (x86) and 64-bit (a64) versions.

*Optional: You will also find there UI file packs for some games with the custom profile I personally use for them, made for even better integration between the game and the overlay.*

## Why though?

Although there are many options (like Steam Input) for mapping gamepad input to keyboard and mouse, this application was specifically designed for playing the *EverQuest* emulation servers *Project 1999* and *Project Quarm*, as well as upcoming classic-style MMOs like *Monsters & Memories* and *Adrullan Online Adventures*, and is tuned with those in mind. It has specific features catered to them that would be difficult to replicate with other, more general-purpose options.

The default provided control schemes draw direct inspiration from the only MMORPG ever made exclusively for controller use — *EverQuest Online Adventures* for the PlayStation 2.

That said, it is fully customizable and can be used with *any* game if you're looking for a free, open-source, lightweight, portable, and versatile tool for using a gamepad with Windows games that don’t natively support one. Just be aware that creating a control scheme from scratch for a new game requires a bit of technical know-how, as it involves editing plain-text files.

## Quick Start Guide

1. Unzip the download and place the contained `.exe` wherever you want.
   - Note that it will save some `.ini` files into the same folder you put it in!
2. Launch the saved .exe and select one of the example profiles (or create your own!)
3. Follow the prompts for options like auto-launching the game
4. Launch your game and play it using a gamepad!

For more details on setup and a walkthrough of playing a game with the default control scheme (i.e. what all the buttons do), check out this video (click the image to play):

[![MMOGO Video User Guide](http://img.youtube.com/vi/dGfhbFy53Rk/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dGfhbFy53Rk "MMO Gamepad Overlay User Guide")

## Customization

Want to tweak a default control scheme or even build your own? See the [Custom Profile Editing Guide](https://onecrazycoder.github.io/MMOGamepadOverlay/profile-edit-ref.html).

## Contact

Questions? Comments? Concerns? Try the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/btRzWQ4N3N) or post on GitHub Discussions.

Commit message:

Update README.md to remove outdated tutorial video

README.md, after:

# MMO Gamepad Overlay

Demonstration video (click to play):

[![MMOGO Demo](http://img.youtube.com/vi/SBlLWR59GGk/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SBlLWR59GGk "MMO Gamepad Overlay app demo")

This application translates game controller input into keyboard and mouse input, alongside gamepad-controlled menus (displayed in a separate transparent window layered over the game) to enable many game functions with the few buttons available on a gamepad.

This application does ***NOT***:
- Require (or even include) an installation process  
- Modify game files in any way  
- Modify or even directly read game memory  
- Inject any code into other processes  
- Use any libraries beyond the basic Windows API  
- Expect or solicit payments or donations  
- Use any proprietary or hidden source code

## Download

Get the latest release [here](https://github.com/OneCrazyCoder/MMOGamepadOverlay/releases), including 32-bit (x86) and 64-bit (a64) versions.

*Optional: You will also find there UI file packs for some games with the custom profile I personally use for them, made for even better integration between the game and the overlay.*

## Why though?

Although there are many options (like Steam Input) for mapping gamepad input to keyboard and mouse, this application was specifically designed for playing the *EverQuest* emulation servers *Project 1999* and *Project Quarm*, as well as upcoming classic-style MMOs like *Monsters & Memories* and *Adrullan Online Adventures*, and is tuned with those in mind. It has specific features catered to them that would be difficult to replicate with other, more general-purpose options.

The default provided control schemes draw direct inspiration from the only MMORPG ever made exclusively for controller use — *EverQuest Online Adventures* for the PlayStation 2.

That said, it is fully customizable and can be used with *any* game if you're looking for a free, open-source, lightweight, portable, and versatile tool for using a gamepad with Windows games that don’t natively support one. Just be aware that creating a control scheme from scratch for a new game requires a bit of technical know-how, as it involves editing plain-text files.

## Quick Start Guide

1. Unzip the download and place the contained `.exe` wherever you want.
   - Note that it will save some `.ini` files into the same folder you put it in!
2. Launch the saved .exe and select one of the example profiles (or create your own!)
3. Follow the prompts for options like auto-launching the game
4. Launch your game and play it using a gamepad!

For basic control scheme when using an example profile, select Edit->Text Files and open the _Default.ini file listed. At the top of the file should be a large block comment explaining the controls for that game. More comments and details for the default control scheme are included throughout this file.

## Customization

Want to tweak a default control scheme or even build your own? See the [Custom Profile Editing Guide](https://onecrazycoder.github.io/MMOGamepadOverlay/profile-edit-ref.html).

## Contact

Questions? Comments? Concerns? Try the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/btRzWQ4N3N) or post on GitHub Discussions.
